        THE THINGS THAT ARE UNSEEN

    THE educational institutions of our country act in
 a public capacity. Although oftentimes privately en-
 dowed, they exist under the authority of a charter granted
 by the government, defining and limiting their powers
 under the law. They were established to support the
 State, intellectually and morally. They are not for the
 private advantage of the individual but for the public
 welfare of the citizen.
    This ideal is old, but America has made a new appli-
 cation of it. Formerly there was an educated class.
From among their membership were drawn the magis-
 trates and the clergymen. It was their province to fur-
nish instruction and leadership for the people. They filled
 the pulpits, administered the offices, and conducted the
schools. But in our country the ideal is no longer t~at
of a highly educated few but of a broadly cultured and
enlightened people. Education is no longer the privilege
of a class but is recognized as a common duty necessary
for all.
   The old idea of training a few for leadership has been
superseded by the modern idea of universal education to
increase national harmony and unity of action. This
ideal has not yet been fully realized, nor can it be for a
considerable length of time. With all the resources with
which America is endowed, they are not sufficient, as
     At Wheaton College, Norton, Massachusetts, June 19, 1923.
                                370

380           THE PRICE OF FREEDOM
yet, to provide for all our inhabitants a liberal education,
although they are sufficient and are providing a very
general and increasingly broadening elementary training.
This leaves somewhat of the old necessary duty of service
and leadership imposed upon those who have been for-
tunate enough to secure the advantages of the higher in-
stitutions of learning.
   Broad as this class has now become, ~hey are still the
ones who have been selected to be foremost in advancing
the cause and bearing the burdens of an enlightened
civilization. They have come into the possession of an
increased intellectual power. They have acquired train-
ing and skill that they may the better minister to the
needs of humanity. It is this purpose lying behind all
our endeavor for education that requires, first of all, that
it should represent a moral training. It is not the skill
of a Fagin that is sought, it is not the mere power to exist,
but, rather, the wisdom of a Madame Curie, the enlight-
ened disposition to serve. An education which does not
accomplish this result is not a real education. It may
provide a higher degree of cunning, a more intensified
selfishness, and may add another prehensile claw with
which to lay hold of the things of the world, but unless
it results in the cultivation of the higher nature, unless
it strengthens the spiritual power, unless it develops into
real character, it will be without any final satisfaction.
   No doubt the need always exists for self-confidence.
That is strengthened by an exact and scholarly knowl-
edge. But it is also desirable to be able correctly to esti-
mate values. A comprehension of the little that we
know, or can know, not only of all the universe or of our

          THE THINGS THAT ARE UNSEEN                     381
 own earth, of science, of literature, of history, of philos-
 ophy, or of their various subdivisions, compared with all
 that is to be known, is useful for the cultivation of an
 appropriate humility. This virtue is not thought to be
 overestimated by the youth of the present day. But it
 is only in the spirit of true humility that there is any
 approach to the better things of life.
    After all, education is the process by which each in-
 dividual recreates his own universe and determines its
 dimensions. As civilization advances, the need becomes
 not less but more. The present industrial methods, with
 all their dependence upon invention, with all their subor-
dination to science, are yet narrowing rather than broad-
ening in their effect upon the general mass of employees.
The requirement of efficiency has reduced much of mod-
ern industrial life to a mere mechanical operation. Those
engaged in it are no longer able to draw on inspiration
from their work.
    Under more primitive conditions this was not the case.
Those who were perhaps entirely untrained in the schools
found ample opportunity for complete personal expres-
sion in their daily employment. Svch was especially the
condition in the industries of those days. The arts and
crafts were what their names signified. A masterpiece
was a graduating essay, by which the apprentice, after
years of training, demonstrated his fitness to be admitted
to the ranks of the master workmen. The skilled hand,
the true eye, the designing mind were all employed in
producing the useful and the beautiful. All the facul-
ties had daily opportunity for artistic expression in the
common employments.

382           THE PRICE OF FREEDOM
   These conditions were not without a marked effect on
the character of those who came under their influence.
At a very early date the tradespeople and artisans of
London became stanch def enders of order and liberty.
They were a people educated in no small part by means
of their employment. They created a vigorous and en-
terprising citizenship which made a very pronounced
contribution to human welfare.
   The tendency in modern industry has been to change
these conditions very materially in the direction of re-
ducing the arts to the position of a trade. This in no
degree detracts from the dignity of work, but it has pro-
duced a kind of work which is very different in its effect
on the development of the individual. In addition to
this, there has been introduced into our system of edu-
cation the vocational and trade schools. These have a
rightful place and make a very valuable contribution to
individual efficiency in industrial life. This whole scheme
of things does not diminish but enlarges the requirement
for a liberal education, the liberal culture which is taught
in the schools, and the maintenance of the opportunities
for broader culture, apart from the trades and vocations
of livelihood outside the schools. The machines of the
shops have a tendency to 1nake machines of the employees.
This must be offset, it must be met by a counter ten-
dency. There is but one-some kind of cultural activity.
   Our country has very well learned the value of the re-
sults of a material prosperity derived from a narrow but
very intense skill and the technical use of the applied
sciences. All of this has not only relocated but has in-
tensified the burden of maintaining the ideals, which are

          THE THINGS THAT ARE UNSEEN                    383
the foundation of all else, upon the institutions of liberal
culture and those who have been their direct beneficiaries.
In a sense it reopens the old field and restores the old
necessity for active leadership not only in the religious
life, political life, and the school life but in that which
we term the every-day life of modern civilization.
   The satisfactions of life arise from the art of self-
expression. If these are not found in the occupational
life, they must be sought and provided from some other
source. Modern industry has its rich compensations. It
not only tremendously increases production, which on the
whole has greatly reduced prices, placing the necessaries,
conveniences, and even luxuries of life almost within uni-
versal reach, but has very much reduced the required
hours of labor and at the same time greatly increased
the remuneration. This has provided both the time and
means for the people at large to engage in outside bene-
ficial and cultural studies and activities. The American
people are nothing if they are not energetic. They have
accepted these conditions with their usual enthusiasm
and used their resources in endless effort in an attempt
to provide themselves with amusement, diversion, and
recreation, a considerable part of which takes the form
of lavish expenditure of money for many purposes which,
after a while, are no longer able to please. Carried to its
logical conclusion, the end is greed and envy.
   One of the chief requirements of the liberally educated
of the present day is that they should contribute to a
better art of living. There is an' enormous opportunity
in this direction, by example and precept, for the educated
womanhood of the land. They have the power to set a

384           THE PRICE OF FREEDOM
standard which would be far-reaching in its effects. In
number they are already considerable. They are in-
creasing rapidly and they have an opportunity to wield
a vast influence for good.
   Our country is beginning to give more public atten-
tion to the development of the fine arts. More thought is
bestowed upon the architecture of public buildings, the
laying out of streets, with a provision for public squares
and parks with suitable statuary and appropriate adorn-
ment. More attention is being given to the beautifying
of private residences and grounds, to formal gardening
and the more artistic use of flowers, shrubberies, and trees.
While these things are taking place out of doors, there is
a corresponding movement inside. The art of home-
making is being cultivated. Under trained supervision
and guidance, there is coming to be harmony of decora-
tions and furnishings as a result of more cultivated taste.
Good pictures are more and more appreciated. Music,
which has the power of making such a universal appeal
and arousing such instant response, is being taught in the
public schools, studied under private direction, and de-
veloped as a connnunity activity. There is a periodical
literature of high quality and great profusion, which
reaches into every corner of the land. The use of library
books is increasingly large. The possibilities of the mov-
ing picture are just beginning to be realized. It has pop-
ularized a high quality of dramatic portrayal. Even the
automobile, by contributing to a much wider range of
vision, is removing whatever was left of a shut-in provin-
cialism. The increasing membership of seasoned fraternal
and patriotic societies shows the desire to fulfil the re-

          THE THINGS THAT ARE UNSEEN                      385
quirements of a more intimate social relationship. The
American people are starting to supplement a mechanical
age with artistic expression.
   All of this is an indication of the direction in which
future progress and development lie. In these outside
activities and interests those who are engaged in the in-
dustries have every opportunity for artistic expression.
It is along these avenues that they can employ their
latent talents and find a more satisfying existence. It is
in the leadership of this social side of life that there is an
especial opportunity and requirement for those of liberal
education and culture.
   It will readily be observed that all of these activities,
all of the service ~nd leadership which they require, par-
take of the nature of a charity. That is always a neces-
sary requirement. The higher and better things of life,
without which existence would be altogether vain and
empty, can neither be bought nor sold. Unless they are
done because they ought to be done, without any direct
remuneration, they will not be done at all. In its nobler
aspect, like eternal life, civilization is a gift. We cannot
say we have more merit or are more worthy than those
born to the darkness of ignorance and barbarism. We
did not acquire our position through our own individual
efforts. We were born into -it. It is the gift conferred
by the sacrifices of past generations. It can only be
maintained by the sacrifices of this generation.
   Yet it is not possible to receive its higher benefits
passively. It is only by active co-operation, it is only
by intense application that the individual comes into
the enjoyment and possession of the heritage of civiliza-

386            THE PRICE OF FREEDOM
 tion. It is in this sense that there must be a re-creation.
 The wonders of civilization do not exist for us unless we
 make them our own. All the science and art, all the
 mathematics and literature, all the discoveries of nature
 and the truths of philosophy are not for us unless we
 appropriate them. We learn of each other through the
 contact of mind with mind. There has never been any
 system of education that did not require clergymen; there
 has never been any system of government that did not
 require magistrates and leaders.
    It is on this side of life that the liberally educated
 should apply themselves. They have been given the
 power to hold up the torch that lights the way. It has
 always been through their efforts that civilization was
 created. It will always be through their efforts that it
 will be maintained.
    This is in no wise a limitation of the American ideal;
 rather it represents the chief application of it. This
 ideal does not diminish the recognition of the usefulness
 and necessity for learning and culture, but from the earli-
 est days has been most careful to provide for it, to cherish
 it, and to admonish all those in authority to maintain
 it. This has been written into the fundamental laws of
 the land. It has been adopted in the provisions of our
,constitutions by the people and enacted into statutes
 by our legislatures. The American ideal requires that
 learning and culture should be extended to all the peo-
 ple. In broadening the old theory of a privilege to be
 held by a few into the new theory of a right that it is
 necessary to supply to all, it does not pull down education
 and culture but undertakes to raise the people up to
 their standards.

          THE THINGS THAT ARE UNSEEN                      387
   !t is in this direction that ,America exhibits its greatest
incompleteness, for it is readily recognized that the direct
benefits of a liberal education are very far from reaching
all the people. The indirect benefits, of course, are uni-
versal and more than sufficient to justify public support.
They speak from every schoolhouse and every pulpit,
and from every learned profession in the land. They set
up and maintain the ideals which provide the standards
of all conduct. They are the source of liberty, enlighten-
ment, and civilization. But the present great need of our
country is an extension of the direct benefits of a liberal
 culture.
   It has sometimes been said that education unfits people
for the ordinary tasks of life. This does not appear to
me to be the case-rather it is ignorance that unfits them
for carrying on their ordinary vocations. It is not dis-
satisfaction with our work but dissatisfaction with our-
selves that is the cause of the unrest and discontent which
is always manifesting itself in one form or another. We
think we want to change our employment, when we really
want to change ourselves. It is a lack of ability to ap-
preciate the real dignity of any useful occupation, to
realize that it is an integral part of the greater whole
that is necessary for promoting the welfare of civiliza-
tion, that makes some think of their daily task as poor
and mean and sordid. Unless the coal be mined, the
northern schoolhouses will close. Unless the sewers be
dug, the public health will suffer. Yet the man in the
mine or sewer does not recognize himself as one who is
ministering to the cause of education and of health, as
in some degree a teacher and a physician; he thinks he is

388           THE PRICE OF FREEDOM
only a shoveller of coal and a digger of ditches. They
need to visualize; they need to see their duty. It is not
ignorance but a greater enlightenment that reveals to
us the true nobility of all toil which contributes to the
conduct of the necessary activities of the world. It is
not in ignorance but in enlightenment that contentment
will be found. It will only be through greater enlighten-
ment that the work of the world can be done.
   This era has come to be recognized as the scientific age.
The world has come into the possession of more discov-
eries and inventions than ever before existed. They
have combined to place in the hands of mankind a power
they never had before. It is scarcely too much to say
that the elements have at last been conquered. It was
only the other day that a man flew from New York to
San Francisco in about twenty-four hours. A reproduc-
tion of the human voice has been sent by radio from
Schenectady to England. There are in the world to-day
more people with a scientific training, ranging all the way
from a workman pursuing his trade at the bench up to
the genius of an Edison, than at any other period. On
this side of life the world is· wildly alive and thoroughly
interested. It is making larger and larger demands of
the schools, of the press, and of every other avenue that
provides technical skill and scientific knowledge. ·
   Yet, when success in this direction is not secured, or,
being secured, it fails somehow to satisfy, there is a ten-
dency to begin to criticise our institutions and the stand-
ards of society, as though they were in some way to
                             I

blame. Sometimes this goes so far as to advocate a
complete change in the attitude of the government toward

          THE THINGS THAT ARE UNSEEN                      389
 property rights. More generally this takes the form of
 some proposal for extended government control and regu-
 lation and a radical change in the theory of taxation.
 The fundamental purpose sought in these proposals is
 said to be more equal distribution of the results of indus-
 try. Our country is an exceedingly good example of the
 fact that if production be encouraged and increased, then
 distribution fairly well takes care of itself. Other coun-
 tries, by their actions in stopping production, in penal-
 izing industry and economy, and rewarding indolence and
 extravagance, have been able to bring about a very gen-
 eral and equal distribution of misery, but no other coun-
 try every approached ours in the equal and general dis-
 tribution of prosperity. The tendency, at the present
 time, is all in the direction of a distribution of industrial
income among the employees, rather than retaining it as
an accumulation of capital or distributing it to stock-
holders. Perhaps it is well to remember that some of
the greatest fortunes in America have been voluntarily
given away and dedicated to charitable purposes. Our
institutions all seem ultimately to function in the direc-
tion of charity, in the direction of civilization.
    It is not on this side of our life that we need to put
the emphasis at the present time. We had our day of
laying the foundation of modern industry, the consoli-
dations, and the intense stimulation of production in
the closing decades of the las~ century. We had our
day of bringing these great agencies under public con-
trol and regulation, in the opening,decades of the present
century. We have looked to our industries. We have
looked to our government. We may well let a season of

390          THE PRICE OF FREEDOM
adjustment and experience disclose the results of the
theories which have been adopted in the past forty years.
Present appearances would indicate that there is little
more to be hoped for by extending our course in that
direction.
   The time appears to have arrived when we may more
properly look to the people, when natural laws may well
be left to supplement artificial laws. It is necessary al-
ways to give a great deal of thought to liberty. There is
no substitute for it. Nothing else is quite so effective.
Unless it be preserved, there is little else that is worth
while. In complete freedom of action the people often-
times have a more effective remedy than can be supplied
by government interference. Individual initiative, in the
long run, is a firmer reliance than bureaucratic supervi-
sion. When the people work out their own economic and
social destiny, they generally reach sound conclusions.
   This is by no means saying that we have reached per-
fection in any province; it is merely a consideration of
some of the things that the liberally educated ought to
do to promote progress. We have reached the antithesis
of the asceticism of the Middle Ages. There is no ten-
dency now to despise self-gratification or to hold what
we call practical affairs in contempt. To adjust the bal-
ance of this age we must seek another remedy. We do
not need more material development, we need more spiri-
tual development. We do not need more intellectual
power, we need more moral power. We do not need
more knowledge, we need more character. We do not
need more government, we need more culture. We do
not need more law, we need more religion. We do not

         THE THINGS THAT ARE UNSEEN                    391
need more of the things that are seen, we need more of
the things that are unseen. It is on that side of life that
it is desirable to put the emphasis at the present time.
If that side be strengthened, the other side will take care
of itself. It is that side which is the foundation of all
else. If the foundation be firm, the superstructure will
stand. The success or failure of liberal education, the
justification of its protection and encouragement by the
government, and of its support by society, will be mea-
sured by its ability to minister to this great cause, to
perform the necessary services, to make the required
redeeming sacrifices.

